game description to be added. should probably just adlib this tbh

genre explanation: speaking time approx. 6 mins (includes (at least) three important design decisions: open world; minimap; lack of other HUD; dark fog; singleplayer; player limitation to only white light):
	Our chosen genres are puzzle and exploration. Puzzle mostly speaks for itself: the game is entirely a puzzle game, with no other gameplay elements to speak of. Puzzle games were also our primary design inspirations and the mechanics were the overwhelming focus of development (as can be seen on github just by push titles).
	Exploration is a little more complicated. The original idea for the (current version of the) game was to have a very small open world consisting of different branches focussing on different mechanics. The player would start with having access only to a white light and find upgrades at the end of these branches that enabled them to complete various side-puzzles spread throughout the whole world. Completing enough of these would open a door in the middle, unlocking a final more complicated level making use of all four colour options; somewhat like how the Talos Principle is structured. As we got further along in development, we learned that even an extremely reserved version of this final level would in itself already easily take any player fifteen or more minutes, let alone the time required to even unlock it. Though it took several steps, mitigating this problem eventually ended us up with essentially no part of this much more exploration-focussed concept remaining: the player never gains access to any other lights and follows an entirely linear path through the temple they're exploring, with no side-puzzles to speak of. Certainly, if we were designing an hour-long game, we would bring most of these ideas back for a more proper full experience, but in the scope of five to ten minutes it is functionally impossible. Players are already taking five minutes or longer just to grasp the basic mechanics as is. The game is also much less difficult now than it was during initial playtesting for this same reason.
	We do hope some of the sense of exploration still remains in the actual play experience itself, which is also something we designed for: we definitely don't expect our players to know light colour mixing by heart going into our game, but we do hope they will experiment and come to understand it. We even decided to reject the playtesting suggestion to add a HUD element showing the various results of the colour mixes specifically for this purpose: we don't want players referencing a provided graph and never really learning anything. The same goes for the lack of a suggestion line on the lasers, and their reflection paths on mirrors in particular: we want players to grow as they master the mechanics and get the sense that they are becoming expert dungeon-delvers. Of course, this is all rather limited by the extremely short scope of the game. The darkness covering everything functions as a kind of fog of war intended to evoke this same sense of exploration as the player literally breaks through the darkness with their light and all the ways they're affecting the temple by solving the puzzles. We would certainly make this lighting more dynamic in a full game too, using light to demarcate where the player has been and darkness where they have not yet as they slowly breach this unknown world.
	The one distinct exception to this rule is the minimap. It was added only after playtesting, based on our observations (and received feedback) that it was very difficult to track what exactly was relevant to a given puzzle and what the player had access to at any given time. As such, the minimap actually is not really there to aid with navigation in a traditional sense, but rather much more to serve as a constant reminder to the player of what elements are in their immediate vicinity. This should encourage more experimentation and prevent players getting stuck by forgetting they have puzzle elements slightly off-screen. A more proper implementation would likely be some sort of radar, but this was the most visually clear and simplest way to solve the problem within the timeframe we had for development.

	We had initially intended to design a co-op puzzle game as a kind of mark of originality. One of the players would be a traditional moving player character existing in the world, while the other would be a floating light or a ghost possessing flashlights or some such thing. They would light objects and actors in a dark space, affecting their behaviour in certain ways by doing so (the primary method being making walls disappear). However, next to some logistical difficulties with grading, this posed significant design problems: designing puzzles with two independently moving agents in mind is extremely complicated. Separating the abilities between players also creates a very scripted kind of sequence where you usually just need to wait for the other to do the obvious next thing (a problem these kinds of games usually avoid with compelling visuals -- something we just do not have access to at that scale). We briefly considered using two more traditional player characters instead, but at this point we were really only keeping the second player as a novelty and it was taking away from the possibilities for the game. Thus, already fairly early on in the project we decided to abandon this idea and instead focus on having more different puzzle mechanics to compensate for lost complexity, hoping to still create a sufficiently complicated experience.
	We had already considered the possibilities of coloured lights in the original idea, and decided to pivot to centring this in the design at this point, fairly quickly leading to the current implementation including colour mixing primarily inspired by the greenroom in the Witness. The lasers were added on not long after as a mostly logical development on the same idea and inspired by Fireboy & Watergirl, which we had originally only been looking towards due to its use of co-op. These lasers would then also naturally have access to the same colours and colour mixing; and just like Fireboy & Watergirl there should be mirrors changing the angle of the emitted beams. Purely by oversight, the mirrors initially didn't bounce laserbeams but instead fired them straight outwards from them, a mistake that eventually evolved into the prisms seen in the final game. The spikes and moving platforms are kind of holdovers from the original idea, but were also extremely easy to implement and fit well enough here. We were initially worried the game would still be too simple...